Optimizing Park and Bike hub locations for sustainable urban mobility 
Mobian, a player in the last-mile solution market in the Netherlands, was founded in 2017 in response to the prohibitive prices of official airport parking. At that time, the company collaborated only with different parking owners who developed services such as valet service and shuttle transportation to access airports. 
 
To do so, Mobian created a Mobility as a Service (MaaS) Application Programming Interface (API), which enabled owners of private airport parking facilities to incorporate their services into the Mobian ecosystem. These providers offer their services to various resellers, such as websites and Online Tour Operators (OTA), which are also connected to the Mobian ecosystem. The versatile API developed by Mobian has been also built to integrate other potential last-mile services such as taxis, shared cars or public transport. During the COVID-19 pandemic, Mobian adapted its MaaS API to connect private parking facilities within cities and bike service providers. The API is able to propose in one single booking, different type of services combined together such as a parking place and a public transport ticket or a parking place and bike rent. For the latter, the bike lock is connected to Mobian API. Via a Bluetooth connectivity, the user can open and close the lock of the bike using the Mobian Application on a device.  

In 2020, the first Mobihub service, located in a hotel parking lot at Rembrandt Park in Amsterdam, was inaugurated with 10 bikes and 10 parking spots. As of June 2023, 300 bikes and 20 e-bikes are available for rent every day. The company offers the parking spot and charges only the location, per hour, of the bike. This makes the price of the service competitive compared to any public and private parking solutions, both on-street and off-street (covered ones). Each hub delivers a constant standardized service: the number of bikes allocated to a hub is proportional to the number of parking spots, the bike storages are identical, the prices of bike rentals are equal everywhere and the ground surface on every parking is paved.  

Unlike traditional Park and Ride (P&R) systems, which typically involve parking near public transport to access city centers without any upfront reservation, Mobian’s P&B system operates with an online pre-booking process. This process enables users to park their car in a designated area, during the reserved time slot, for up to 72 hours and use a bike for the final segment of their journey. The micro-mobility process requires the bicycles to be returned to their original pickup points, where the cars are parked. This method ensures parking availability guaranteed for the user with the desired number of bikes selected based on the idea: first pre-booked, first-served. 

As of June 2023, Mobian has established 24 bike hubs in Dutch cities: Amsterdam (Figure 1.2), Rotterdam, Den Haag, Noordwijk, , Egmond aan Zee, catering to two distinct user groups: commuters and tourists. Figure 1.2: The location of the 8 hubs managed by Mobian, in the city of Amsterdam Mobian plans to extend its services to other major European cities in the forthcoming months. However, the company faces multiple obstacles in its development, including local regulations, partnerships with local providers, and a lack of knowledge about the city (road structures, commuter behavior, biking culture...). As the business model focuses on commuters to ensure consistent profitability, the placement of hubs is crucial for maximizing demand and for establishing only those useful. In order to forecast the demand for Mobian’s services, primarily from commuters, it becomes essential to discern the origins of this demand and identify the most frequented destinations. 

Scope of the problem 
Mobian wants to have a methodology to identify optimal locations for their hubs. This will optimize the service while offering a maximum coverage of the needs of the commuters in the cities targeted. With this work, the model aims to provide a quick and accurate answer to the operational team when the question of the choice of the potential hubs is at stake. 

 
