Earthquakes, floods, landslides and storms are examples of disaster types which affect many people across the world. When a disaster strikes, many of the affected regions call for international assistance to help responding to and recovering from the disaster. This response can, for instance, be characterized by the dispatch of relief items (e.g., tents, tarpaulins, food, hygiene kits, etc.) to the affected regions by international relief organizations. To enhance response capabilities, humanitarian organizations often make use of pre-positioning inventory. This may significantly reduce the cost and time it takes to deliver emergency items to the affected people.

However, for a relief organization it is often not easy to store goods anywhere in the world. For instance, opening a depot for a small amount of pre-positioned goods might be too expensive. As an alternative, they can use the services of Humanitarian Logistics Service Providers (HLSPs). As the name already suggests, an HLSP offers services to humanitarian organizations that improve the efficiency of the supply chain of these organizations. They try to increase efficiency and effectiveness of the coordination of multiple relief agencies. For instance, an HLSP may offer storage space in specific places of the world.

One of the largest HLSPs is the United Nations Humanitarian Response Depot (UNHRD), managed by the UN World Food Programme (WFP). UNHRD offers storage space to humanitarian organizations (for free) in multiple locations across the globe such that these organizations can consider these locations for pre-positioning their inventory. Besides offering storage space, UNHRD can assist in transporting stored relief items to the affected regions on behalf of the humanitarian organizations. Unlike the storage, this is done on a cost-recovery basis. It typically results in lower transportation costs due to cargo consolidation effects and pooling of resources.
(source: Stienen, V. (2024). Analytics for humanitarian networks in uncertain and data-scarce environments.)